AUTHORS’ FOREWORD
=================

This reference document describes what is known as *APRS Protocol
Version 1.0*, and is essentially a description of how APRS operates
today.

It is intended primarily for the programmer who wishes to develop
APRS- compliant applications, but will also be of interest to the
ordinary user who wants to know more about what goes on “under the
hood”.

It is not intended, however, to be a dry-as-dust, pedantic, RFC-style
programming specification, to be read and understood only by the Mr
Spocks of this world. We have included many items of general
information which, although strictly not part of the formal protocol
description, provide a useful background on how APRS is actually used
on the air, and how it is implemented in APRS software. We hope this
will put APRS into perspective, will make the document more readable,
and will not offend the purists too much.

It is important to realize how APRS originated, and to understand the
design philosophy behind it. In particular, we feel strongly that
APRS is, and should remain, a light-weight tactical system — almost
anyone should be able to use it in temporary situations (such as
emergencies or mobile work or weather watching) with the minimum of
training and equipment.

This document is the result of inputs from many people, and collated
and massaged by the APRS Working Group. Our sincere thanks go to
everyone who has contributed in putting it together and getting it
onto the street. If you discover any errors or omissions or
misleading statements, please let us know

— the best way to do this is via the TAPR *aprsspec* mailing list at
`www.tapr.org. <http://www.tapr.org/>`__

Finally, users throughout the world are continually coming up with
new ideas and suggestions for extending and improving APRS. We
welcome them.

Again, the best way to discuss these is via the *aprsspec* list.

The APRS Working Group August 2000

**Disclaimer** Like any navigation system, APRS is not infallible. No
one should rely blindly on APRS for navigation, or in life-and-death
situations. Similarly, this specification is not infallible.

The members of the APRS Working Group have done their best to define
the APRS protocol, but this protocol description may contain errors,
or there may be omissions. It is very likely that not all APRS
implementations will fully or correctly implement this specification,
either today or in the future.

We urge anyone using or writing a program that implements this
specification to exercise caution and good judgement. The APRS
Working Group and the specification’s Editor disclaim all liability
for injury to persons or property that may result from the use of
this specification or software implementing it.


